I'm really excited for this product
because it's called The Meta Quest 3s
but despite the name it's actually more
of a Quest 2 plus it's got the same
Optical stack as the Quest 2 here but
it's got the same chip upgraded chip
upgraded software features some of them
as The Meta 3 here and I have actually
not tried the meta Quest 3 uh but I
spent a lot of time with the Quest 2 so
it's perfect for me because I can be a
little bit ignorant of what I'm missing
in the quest 3 I'm going to try that a
little bit just to compare but um that's
why I'm excited and that's why you
should be excited too in case you have
somehow been living under a rock for a
number of years now the meta quest line
our VR headsets by the company meta uh
they're basically the only huge big
player in VR uh anymore other than Apple
now so anytime they release a new
headset it's kind of a big deal this is
the question 3s and despite me saying
that it's more of a two plus it actually
has one upgrade over the quest 3 and
something that makes it a lot more
attractive it's $ 299 which we haven't
really had a quest headset for 299 since
before meta upgraded upgraded the price
big upgrade up to$ 3.99 from $299 for
the Quest 2 that was disappointing and
now we have a 299 option once more one
bonus that you're going to get over the
Quest 2 is that the quest 3s comes with
the same controllers as the quest 3 it
doesn't have that ring for sensing uh
for tracking movement anymore making
them a little bit more portable uh so
that's nice to see so one obvious way
that the quest 3s is different than the
quest 3 but more similar to The Quest 2
is in its thickness it uses Fel lenses
and the exact same Optical stack as the
Quest 2 whereas the quest 3 will have
those pancake lenses and a higher
resolution uh the pancake lenses
allowing it to be a little bit thinner
and feeling less like it's extending out
from your face but we'll see how it
feels when I try it out an obvious
upgrade that the quest 3s actually has
over the three and the two is the
addition of two infrared sensors on the
front which apparently increases the
ability to track hands and stuff in a
lower lit environment I'm excited to try
that out on the left side we have the
USBC port for charging and data or
whatever you're going to use it for
power button and what you might think at
first is a head Jack if you're looking
far away but no that's just another
tracking camera there's no headphone
jack they took out the headphone jack
compared to the Quest 2 why on the right
side another tracking camera and volume
rocker and this is a new edition as well
compared to both the two and the three
it's a button for pass through instead
of having to double tap while you're in
VR mode to see the outside world now
it's just a simple button you can hit
with your thumb so we'll see how easier
that is though for real the quest 3s
does inherit from the quest 3 this
easily adjust adjustable strap you can
just kind of pull it closed and open it
again it's so easy you can get it open
there to accommodate a ponytail out the
back or the cord coming out of your head
from The Matrix some people are in The
Matrix and use VR at the same time I
don't I won't judge now this insert is
telling me that I can get prescription
lens inserts for The Meta 3s but
thankfully like the Quest 2 the quest 3s
accommodates people with glasses thank
you for thinking of me because they this
glasses spacer in the box that is
attached to the power adapter and the
USBC
cord oh there we go do the other
headsets have this circular adapter this
is cute and that supports 18 W charging
so the quest 3s like the Quest 2 has a
three-step ipd adjustment it does not
have the quest 3's uh dial that like
kind of has a lot of gradual steps in
between it's just got three steps just
like the two and I forget which one I
use cuz it's been a while I'll have to
do a trial and error there so there's
this paperwork here with some quick
start guide and that's it for what's in
the box let's get this out of here I
want to enter the
metaverse Oh but before that thanks to
charge for sponsoring today's video
their carbon mag series of power banks
are mag safe compatible and crafted with
a genuine carbon fiber making them both
lightweight and durable the 5K model
supports 7.5 W wireless charging
weighing in at around a/4 of a pound
while only being about 9 mm thick and
the 10K variant may be slightly chunkier
but it has double the capacity and 15
wat ch2 wireless charging plus both have
20 W wired charging for those quick
topups check them out at the links in
the description
[Music]
below
whoa the reason I reacted there is
because oh holy crap okay and this is
why it was good it was smart Jake to get
me to do this video because coming from
The Quest 2 the first thing you see when
you turn it on is the color pass through
and this looks way better than the Quest
2 it's crazy as I was saying now you can
see now you can see the color pass
through uh on the Quest 2 it's not only
grayscale but it's a lot lower
resolution I can actually read text
on monitors over
here it's circuit it's
amazing one of the other upgrades that
the 3s has is the ability like the uh
meta Quest 3 to map out your 3D space
using the sensors I think that's what
it's doing right now I'm not going to
refine it I'm going to trust the
AI adjust boundary if needed honestly
Quest 3s
honestly it's pretty good you did pretty
good so one of the things I like to do
in VR is to experience kind of the top
end of what's capable on the current
Hardware that I'm using right now this
thing has the Snapdragon xr2 Gen 2 the
same processor as the quest 3 uh
compared to the Quest 2 which just has
the xr2 Gen 1 so this is upgraded and
we're going to try the new Batman Arkham
Shadows game which is only available on
the quest three and and 3s so if you're
upgrading from The Quest 2 to the 3s
that's one of the things you're going to
get is some experiences that are not
going to be available on the Quest 2
which will be eventually discontinued
okay I want to be Batman let's do this
more so than when the original Batman
Arkham Asylum came out I feel this feels
like you're
Batman there it is look grapple
oh those are directional markers
okay this is so funny it is very much
like the uh the the Arkham games for for
not having used any VR headsets since
the Quest 2 this doesn't really seem
like a generational Improvement to me uh
maybe with a higher resolution on the
quest 3 it would look better but it is
the same chip so I don't know we'll have
to see now as I've said where the quest
3s really shines in comparison to The
Quest 2 is the color pass through and
the
augmented augmented reality experience
so we're going to do a pass through game
this is something that the Quest 2 just
could not do I mean I've mapped my 3D
space and there's like a window into the
synth Rider's World in like the whole
there's like a hole in reality I saw
this demoed when they were talking about
this feature at first and uh I thought
it looked cool and in fact it does
playing a VR game while seeing people in
the real world over there is kind of
cool it's definitely makes the
experience a lot more social than it was
I think I like this game better than
beat
saber for one I probably look way cooler
than lonus ever does doing it right tell
me do I look cooler than lonus right now
so since the quest 3s has upgraded hand
tracking might as well jump into hand
physics lab in terms of the hand
tracking in this thing it's very
impressive I'm impressed a lot more than
I was with the Quest 2 with like the
intuitiveness with which I'm using a lot
of stuff it's tracking my hands very
well I haven't seen a lot of like
dropouts or choppiness with the hands
like I am uh you know I haven't tried
the quest 3 yet I've tried the quest two
but as a jump from The Quest 2 this is
very impressive I feel like I'm here and
I feel like I have little
skeltal Wiggly bones for real okay this
is my first time playing the quest 3 not
the 3s that I just had on my face and I
can I can immediately
notice I feel like I can immediately
notice a higher resolution in the like
UI elements and stuff the color the pass
through actually looks very very similar
in terms of the readability of text and
stuff there's not much difference
between this and the 3s so that's cool
to see you're definitely getting that
upgrade handed down okay so is this
faster oh yeah so the scanning process
is like noticeably a bit faster than the
3s on the 3 in-game assets the beat saer
text up there is noticeably sharper in
addition with the pancake lenses we're
using pancake lenses instead of frenel
lenses which have these concentric rings
on the lens and it kind of distorts
light as it comes outward you have kind
of a sweet spot in the middle and then
things that get farther away from The
Sweet Spot get kind of distorted there's
like light flaring and stuff you know
okay so like for beat
saber I don't know how much of a
difference something like this is going
to make so coming in from the three to
the 3s uh you know like I said there is
a slightly lower fov and resolution but
in terms of the controller tracking in
terms of what it feels like to play a
game and look around still feels great
uh so it's great to see that is giving
us an affordable option so comparing the
quest 3 to the 3s has kind of confirmed
my you know my take that I gave in the
beginning of the video which is that the
comparison of the 3S to the three is the
somewhat less important one than
comparing it to the Quest 2 it's a clear
upgrade uh from The Quest 2 not in terms
of resolution or in like the ipd
adjustment a couple of those things but
in other ways it's a clear adjustment
better hand tracking the pass through
button the processor running the whole
thing the Snapdragon xr2 Gen 2 but that
invites the question should you upgrade
to the 3s if you have a Quest 2 for me
as a somewhat longtime Quest 2 user I
don't know if I would consider upgrading
just to go to the 3s if I was going to
want to move on from my Quest 2 I think
I'd want a kind of a bigger jump and I'd
be considering the quest 3 at this point
but if you're new new to the VR game and
you do want some of those more advanced
features you're not going to just be
using a headset just for like exercise
and you know the kind of like you can
get away with having lower resolution if
you want some of those higher Fidelity
experiences but you're not ready to go
to the top end getting a 128 gig 3s for
$299 a pretty good deal but I'll make
you a good deal if you're looking for
something else to watch go check out
this video where I talked to an AI
powered stuff stuffed animal meant for
children it yeah exactly